src/content/discreteStructures1/post-1.mdx, before:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: Propositional Logic
pubDate: 2025-03-05T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2025-03-05T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: propositional-logic
---

import RuleBox from '@components/Rule.astro';

# What is a Proposition?

The first thing you learn in discrete is what a proposition is. 

<RuleBox>

A **proposition** is a declarative statement that can either be true or false, not both. It cannot be a question or contain undefined variables. 

</RuleBox>

Learn how to tell if something is a proposition or not below!

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-n4Zo7ZFdzg?si=KvuVNxHM0oJJtVIx" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# How to represent propositions + Transition to Truth Tables and How to Construct One 
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4AfYwDljNkg?si=SIVyPb7OiBP5FQ2Z&amp;start=4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Atomic vs Compound Propositions + Transition Into Logic Operators 
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JltC6hEm00M?si=tlzRKBDVbJg_J2xW" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Truth Tables with Logic Operators (Connectives) / Truth Tables with Compound Propositions

<RuleBox>
And ∧   
OR ∨  
NOT (NEGATE) ⌉(or ∼)  
IMPLICATION →  
DOUBLE IMPLICATION ↔ 
</RuleBox>

# NOT, AND, OR, EXCLUSIVE OR 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qhzptRkem7A?si=jdygUc4XBrLR185z&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Implication 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-WG5kfMAwzk?si=KCX-w0RaI4ckNDYW&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Types of Implications (CIC 'Sick'/SOB)

<RuleBox>
The default implication is p → q. This translates to "If p is true then q must be true."

We can have variations of these implications. We call these variations the converse, inverse and contrapositive. You may be asked to find the converse of an implication but instead of memorizing you can remember the phrase, "If you're **CIC** (Sick), you're **SOB**bing.", where 'sick' is spelt 'cic'.  
<table>
 
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**C**onverse</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**S**witch</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">q → p</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**I**nverse</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**O**pposite (Negate)</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">⌉p → ⌉q</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**C**ontrapositive</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**B**oth (Switch & Negate)</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">⌉q → ⌉p</td>
  </tr>
</table>
</RuleBox>

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/b_6nhBWL4gc?si=I2myNWeuzKHaTFAC&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iiFCGHpWlwc?si=gsdfopQ_bMsCFPa-" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Double Implication 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6E9L2MOynzU?si=xMpwLCfIGq2P8p5k&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Applications of propositional logic [Soon]
 
## Logic Gates 


## Logic Puzzles 

# Satisfiable 

# Consistent

Commit message:

031825 added more videos to discrete 1 satisfiablity, consistency, equivalences of propositions

src/content/discreteStructures1/post-1.mdx, after:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: Propositional Logic
pubDate: 2025-03-05T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2025-03-05T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: propositional-logic
---

import RuleBox from '@components/Rule.astro';

# What is a Proposition?

The first thing you learn in discrete is what a proposition is. 

<RuleBox>

A **proposition** is a declarative statement that can either be true or false, not both. It cannot be a question or contain undefined variables. 

</RuleBox>

Learn how to tell if something is a proposition or not below!

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-n4Zo7ZFdzg?si=KvuVNxHM0oJJtVIx" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# How to represent propositions + Transition to Truth Tables and How to Construct One 
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4AfYwDljNkg?si=SIVyPb7OiBP5FQ2Z&amp;start=4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Atomic vs Compound Propositions + Transition Into Logic Operators 
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JltC6hEm00M?si=tlzRKBDVbJg_J2xW" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Truth Tables with Logic Operators (Connectives) / Truth Tables with Compound Propositions

<RuleBox>
And ∧   
OR ∨  
NOT (NEGATE) ⌉(or ∼)  
IMPLICATION →  
DOUBLE IMPLICATION ↔ 
</RuleBox>

# NOT, AND, OR, EXCLUSIVE OR 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qhzptRkem7A?si=jdygUc4XBrLR185z&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Implication 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-WG5kfMAwzk?si=KCX-w0RaI4ckNDYW&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Variations of the Implication Operator (CIC 'Sick'/SOB)

<RuleBox>
The default implication is p → q. This translates to "If p is true then q must be true."

We can have variations of these implications. We call these variations the converse, inverse and contrapositive. You may be asked to find the converse of an implication but instead of memorizing you can remember the phrase, "If you're **CIC** (Sick), you're **SOB**bing.", where 'sick' is spelt 'cic'.  
<table>
 
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**C**onverse</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**S**witch</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">q → p</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**I**nverse</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**O**pposite (Negate)</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">⌉p → ⌉q</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**C**ontrapositive</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">**B**oth (Switch & Negate)</td>
    <td style="text-align: left; padding-right: 40px;">⌉q → ⌉p</td>
  </tr>
</table>
</RuleBox>

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/b_6nhBWL4gc?si=I2myNWeuzKHaTFAC&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iiFCGHpWlwc?si=gsdfopQ_bMsCFPa-" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Double Implication 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6E9L2MOynzU?si=xMpwLCfIGq2P8p5k&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


# Properties of Compound Propositions 

# Satisfiablity 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4zD5xAe8FWQ?si=UVQw9pvaonOokS3_&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Consistency 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Kd_PJuqu738?si=LGeZGVm8b7RUb_f_&amp;start=5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Tautology, Contradiction and Contingency  

# Applications of propositional logic [Soon]
 
## Translation 

## Logic Gates 


## Logic Puzzles
