src/content/calc2/post-5.mdx, before:

---
layout: "@layouts/Blog.astro"
title: 6.3 Arc Length
pubDate: 2024-04-29T00:00:00Z
updatedDate: 2000-01-01T00:00:00Z
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: arc-length
---

import ImageMd from "@components/ImageMd.astro";
import Solution from '@components/Solution.astro';

import img1 from "@images/152/56.svg";

When you find arclength you're just finding the length of a curve.

The types of problems you will see will give you a function and you basically have to plug it's derivative into this formula.

<ImageMd img = {img1} alt = "Formula for arclength"/>

So, the hard part is clearly not finding the arc length - it's finding the derivative and doing the algebra after plugging it into the formula.

Also, you might ask why is arc length denoted as _s_? Shouldn't that be for surface area?

I agree with you but that's how these math people decided to denote arc length. Okay, let's move on.

**1**. Let K be the part of the curve y = x<sup>3/2</sup> between x = 0 and x = 4. Calculate the arclength of K.

<Solution>
8/27 (10√10 - 1)
</Solution>

Commit message:

111924 added arc length video for y integral

src/content/calc2/post-5.mdx, after:

---
layout: "@layouts/Blog.astro"
title: 6.3 Arc Length
pubDate: 2024-04-29T00:00:00Z
updatedDate: 2024-11-20T00:00:00Z
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: arc-length
---

import ImageMd from "@components/ImageMd.astro";
import Solution from '@components/Solution.astro';

import img1 from "@images/152/56.svg";

When you find arclength you're just finding the length of a curve.

The types of problems you will see will give you a function and you basically have to plug it's derivative into this formula.

<ImageMd img = {img1} alt = "Formula for arclength"/>

So, the hard part is clearly not finding the arc length - it's finding the derivative and doing the algebra after plugging it into the formula.

Also, arc length can be denoted by S or L. It doesn't really matter as long as the formula is correct.

# Arc Length (X-Integral)

# Arc Length (Y-Integral)

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8skzHUMGIMg?si=FMvK9I0EDguS6VUg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


**1**. Let K be the part of the curve y = x<sup>3/2</sup> between x = 0 and x = 4. Calculate the arclength of K.

<Solution>
8/27 (10√10 - 1)
</Solution>
