src/content/dataStructures/post-3.mdx, before:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: Union Find
pubDate: 2024-09-16T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2024-09-16T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: union-find
---

import Code from '@components/Code.astro';

Imagine you're in a Netflix competition.

The current challenge is to get through a maze.

This maze has a lot of entrances. One entrance has no way out. 

You were the winner of the last challenge so you're allowed to ask for one hint. 

Your'e showed the entrances and you ask the host, "Which entrance has no way out?"

What's the host's answer?

Well, first, they should already have the answer before the challenge even starts but what did they have to do beforehand to get that answer?

Did they take 50 hours doing trial and error walking different ways to see if the path to the exit exists or... do they use the union-find algorithm???

They use the union-find algorithm!

This algorithm, tells the host if there's a connection from each entrance to the exit.

So, the host would have had to run the algorithm for each entrance and it would tell the host if the path exists or not.

The host would then know which path has no way out and would be able to tell you!

Now, the host is a computer scientist by night so they would not have just used this algorithm, they would have written it from scratch.

So, let's do the same. Let's rewrite this algorithm from scratch.

There are three versions of the algorithm you will have to learn for the exam: (1) QuickFind, (2) QuickUnion and (3)QuickUnion with Weights

First, let's watch us manually apply the algorithm and then we will translate these steps into code. 

<Code lang = "java" fileName = "QuickFind.java" code = 
{`public class QuickFind {

    private int[]id;

    public QuickFindUF(int n){
        id = new int[n];

        for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
            id[i] = i;
        }
        public int find(int p){
            return id[p]
        }

        public void union(int p, int g){
            pid = id[p];
            gid = id[g];
            
            for(int i = 0; i < id.length; i++){
                if(id[i] = pid) id[i] = gid;
            }
        }
    }
}`}>
</Code>

Commit message:

092024 changed title of an mis post  092124 edited union find post from maze intro to connect the dots intro 092224 edited union post in compsci 112 092324 wrote linked list and a bit of stacks post in compsci 112 092424 created post in mis Database Design Basics 092524 updated FAQ for disk washer and shell volume and added u sub problem and added a few linear algebra links yesterday

src/content/dataStructures/post-3.mdx, after:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: Union Find
pubDate: 2024-09-16T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2024-09-16T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: union-find
---

import Code from '@components/Code.astro';

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4gEaaTRz1h8

Let's play a game. It's called connect the dots. 

I tell you which dots you want connected and you connect them. Ready?

These dots are really called verticies and the lines you connect them with are called edges. 

But what if I give you a billion verticies and I ask you to connect them in the order I want? You don't have time for that so you let the computer do it. 

But first, you have to tell the computer how to do it. 

So, how do we solve this problem? 

Using the union-find algorithm.






<Code lang = "java" fileName = "QuickFind.java" code = 
{`public class QuickFind {

    private int[]id;

    public QuickFindUF(int n){
        id = new int[n];

        for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
            id[i] = i;
        }
        public int find(int p){
            return id[p]
        }

        public void union(int p, int g){
            pid = id[p];
            gid = id[g];
            
            for(int i = 0; i < id.length; i++){
                if(id[i] = pid) id[i] = gid;
            }
        }
    }
}`}>
</Code>

# QuickFind 

It's in the name. This is the quick find version of the algorithm. 

# QuickUnion

This is the quick union version of this algorithm. 

# QuickUnion Weighted
