src/content/dataStructures/post-9.mdx, before:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: Priority Queues
pubDate: 2024-11-11T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2024-11-11T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: priority-queues
---


Priority queues are like queues where the primary concern is not the order of insertion, but the priority of elements.

Unlike a regular queue (first-in-first-out) or stack (last-in-first-out), a priority queue allows us to always access either the largest or smallest element first.

A common analogy is an emergency room where the most critical patient (highest priority) is treated first, regardless of arrival order.

Priority queues support two main operations: insert (adding an element with a priority) and delete-max/min (removing the highest or lowest priority element).

A binary heap is a complete binary tree structure that supports the idea of a priority queue.

There are two different types of binary heap trees- min and max heap trees. 

Let's talk about them.

# Intro to Binary Heap Trees  


You can also represent PQ with arrays.

# From Arrays to Binary Heap Trees


# Max Heap Binary Tree

## Inserting 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7IB-9G2-IX8?si=KQkmiv4DGn9az9cY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Deleting

# Min Heap Binary Tree

## Inserting 

## Deleting

# Heapsort

Commit message:

111724 added videos and solutions to priority queues and balanced search trees 111724 added more videos to data structures and financial management

src/content/dataStructures/post-9.mdx, after:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: Priority Queues
pubDate: 2024-11-11T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2024-11-16T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: priority-queues
---

Priority queues are like queues where the primary concern is not the order of insertion, but the priority of elements.

Unlike a regular queue (first-in-first-out) or stack (last-in-first-out), a priority queue allows us to always access either the largest or smallest element first.

A common analogy is an emergency room where the most critical patient (highest priority) is treated first, regardless of arrival order.

Priority queues support two main operations: insert (adding an element with a priority) and delete-max/min (removing the highest or lowest priority element).

We use two data structures to create priority queues: arrays and binary heap trees. 

# From Arrays to Binary Heap Trees

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/R7Jjd5RgVeA?si=RmcnfzfNsCx_1jc4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Intro to Binary Heap Trees  

A binary heap is a complete binary tree structure that supports these operations of a priority queue.

There are two different types of binary heap trees- min and max heap trees. 

Let's talk about them.

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TSoJpIs6WCg?si=DAN5k0P4iyXzcoey" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Max Heap Binary Tree

## Inserting 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7IB-9G2-IX8?si=KQkmiv4DGn9az9cY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Deleting

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XN8BH17kBS0?si=xLdcSlaX7u-XCPMI" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Min Heap Binary Tree

## Inserting 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WrMpeq5Rs1s?si=JCX2a0VB0lqxX94z" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Deleting

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lmosWIEKmyQ?si=YfJ9FbvBbEJaeaiU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Heapsort
