src/content/linearAlg/post-3.mdx, before:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: Matrix Vector Products, Homogeneous and Nonhomogeneous Linear Systems
pubDate: 2024-09-11T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2024-09-11T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: matrix-vector-products-homogeneous-and-nonhomogeneous-linear-systems
---

temp text
# Let's talk about solutions

<F>
Recall: When we're solving a system we're just finding **where these lines intersect.** 
</F>

<F>
**1.** If the systems have **no solutions** then that means **they don't intersect**. 
</F>

<F>
Think: How in the world wide web can two lines not intersect? 
</F>

<F> 
If they are parallel. 
</F>

<F>
So, if a system has no solution then they never intersect hence the lines have to be parallel.
</F>

<F>
**2.** If the systems have **one solution** then that means **they do intersect at one point**.
</F>

<F>
**3.** If the systems have **many solutions** then that means **they do intersect at every point**.
</F>

<F>
Think: How in the world wide web can two lines intersect at the same points?
</F>

<F> 
If they are the same lines. 
</F>

<F>
So, if a system has infinitely many solutions then they intersect at all the same points hence the lines have to be the same.
</F>

Commit message:

last commit failed bc when i copied over some code to another file I forgot to import the components 100324 I added vids to some IBP problems!! finally!! (calc2) + also some notes on linear algebra

src/content/linearAlg/post-3.mdx, after:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: Matrix Vector Products, Homogeneous and Nonhomogeneous Linear Systems
pubDate: 2024-09-11T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2024-09-11T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: matrix-vector-products-homogeneous-and-nonhomogeneous-linear-systems
---

import F from '@components/F.astro';
import Latex from '@components/Latex.astro';

temp text
# Let's talk about solutions

<F>
Recall: When we're solving a system we're just finding **where these lines intersect.** 
</F>

<F>
**1.** If the systems have **no solutions** then that means **they don't intersect**. 
</F>

<F>
Think: How in the world wide web can two lines not intersect? 
</F>

<F> 
If they are parallel. 
</F>

<F>
So, if a system has no solution then they never intersect hence the lines have to be parallel.
</F>

<F>
**2.** If the systems have **one solution** then that means **they do intersect at one point**.
</F>

<F>
**3.** If the systems have **many solutions** then that means **they do intersect at every point**.
</F>

<F>
Think: How in the world wide web can two lines intersect at the same points?
</F>

<F> 
If they are the same lines. 
</F>

<F>
So, if a system has infinitely many solutions then they intersect at all the same points hence the lines have to be the same.
</F>
