src/content/linearAlg/post-2.mdx, before:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: 1.3 Vector Equations
pubDate: 2024-09-17T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2024-09-17T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: vector-equations-linear-combinations-and-matrix-vector-products
---

import Latex from '@components/Latex.astro';
import ImageMd from '@components/ImageMd.astro';
import img1 from '@images/250/1.png';
import img2 from '@images/250/2.png';
import img3 from '@images/250/3.png';

Up until now, we've been plotting points on ℝ², which is the same coordinate plane you've been using since 8th grade.

Just as a coordinate point (x₁, x₂) is a pair or *list* of numbers, a vector is also a list of numbers. Another way to represent points on a graph is through vectors.

See how I do so in the following video, 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0gr9of8I8Qk?si=SWsUMr7GdxCaLzTX" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Now, let's practice adding, subtracting and scaling vectors (aka multiplying by any real number *c*.) 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/X0Sj3acZkkA?si=TZCAdba2bPtMn8yg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

We learned above that we can add vectors together and not only can we add them, but we can also scale them before adding.

This gives us countless combinations, each resulting in different vectors. So the question becomes: given any vector, can we determine if it is a linear combination of two other vectors that have been added and possibly scaled?

Note that all the possible linear combinations (all possible resulting vectors) of two vectors is called the **span** of those two vectors. 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5WJkiBfvit8?si=-oiwfB_zIzLCqGNU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Let's see if we can answer that question but before, here is a quick lesson on how to write systems in a new form-column vector form!

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ify8DWOUbjg?si=ihQbdn6L-n1fuwND" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Example 1 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/N7MKuQlZZCk?si=PGFOyLH8W8mFWFXo" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Example 2

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cxpH0uajJtA?si=MKI7nBP7hIH-9wUV" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Now, we know how to check if a vector is a linear combination of other vectors. 

If you have two vectors, multiplying them by any scalars gives infinitely many possible combinations. 

The set of all these combinations is called the **span** of the two vectors. 

So, asking if vector b is a linear combination of two vectors is the same as asking if it's in their span.

Let's see an example of such question.



Write a Vector Equation as a System of Equations

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8qnSdVsLnjU

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OSn_7sx3x9o

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BjuFafsw8yU

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bw0-UqZ_xnY

ToDO

transition from matrix to vector form
vector operations 
linear combinations

Commit message:

102324 FINALLY I connected the dots on the matrix equation post in linear algebra. Just have to film some videos now + added and fixed videos for 4.1 and 4.2 vector spaces, subsets and subspaces, added two types of problems in answering whether a subset is a subspace + added some missing clarification video in 1.1/1.2

src/content/linearAlg/post-2.mdx, after:

---
layout: '@layouts/Blog.astro'
title: 1.3 Vector Equations + Application of 1.1 and 1.2
pubDate: 2024-09-17T00:00:00Z 
updatedDate: 2024-09-17T00:00:00Z 
draft: false
author: Sarai Marte
slug: vector-equations-linear-combinations-and-matrix-vector-products
---

import Latex from '@components/Latex.astro';
import ImageMd from '@components/ImageMd.astro';
import img1 from '@images/250/1.png';
import img2 from '@images/250/2.png';
import img3 from '@images/250/3.png';

# Vectors 

Up until now, we've been plotting points on ℝ², which is the same coordinate plane you've been using since 8th grade.

Just as a coordinate point (x₁, x₂) is a pair or *list* of numbers, a vector is also a list of numbers. Another way to represent points on a graph is through vectors.

See how I do so in the following video, 

## Introduction 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0gr9of8I8Qk?si=SWsUMr7GdxCaLzTX" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## System of Equations to Vector Form 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ify8DWOUbjg?si=ihQbdn6L-n1fuwND" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Vector Operations 

Now, let's practice adding, subtracting and scaling vectors (aka multiplying by any real number *c*.) 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/X0Sj3acZkkA?si=TZCAdba2bPtMn8yg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Transition From The Idea That We Can Scale and Add/Combine Vectors to Linear Combinations of Vectors

Either watch the video below or if your in a hurry, just read the text below it. 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5WJkiBfvit8?si=-oiwfB_zIzLCqGNU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

We learned in the previous video that we can add vectors together and not only can we add them, but we can also scale them before adding.

This gives us countless combinations of new vectors. So the question becomes: given any vector, can we determine if it is one of the combinations - specifically linear combinations- of two other vectors that have been added and possibly scaled?

Answering the question above is what I call an application of the skills we learned in 1.1 and 1.2.

Let's see if we can answer that question but before, here is a quick lesson on how to write systems in a new form-column vector form!

# Application 1| Is a given vector a combination of two other vectors and their scalars c?

## Example 1 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/N7MKuQlZZCk?si=PGFOyLH8W8mFWFXo" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Example 2

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cxpH0uajJtA?si=MKI7nBP7hIH-9wUV" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Application 2| Is a given vector in the span of two other vectors?

Now, we know how to check if a vector is a linear combination of other vectors. 

If you have two vectors, multiplying them by any scalars gives infinitely many possible combinations. 

The set of all these combinations is called the **span** of the two vectors. 

So, asking if vector b is a linear combination of two vectors is the same as asking if it's in their span.

Let's see an example of such question.
